Thank you, Bron.
At this time we will have some more congregational singing. Benson, will you please come forward?
When we'll go over the Welsh words with us.
Tonabotl, this tune by Thomas J. Williams, is taken from a praise handbook published in 1890
and is also called Ebenezer. Although I think in the Presbyterian hymnal you'll find it as Tonabotl.
The legend claims that the tune was found in a bottle washed up on the Welsh shore.
And like all legends, it's highly suspect.
However,
legends are fun to believe in.
We're going to do the Welsh words before we start singing this time so as not to break up the flow.
An adawroedd mawr ar tonnay.
Nid oes neb a ddail fy mhen.
Ond fy anwyl brior iesu.
Af i farw ar y pryn.
Cyfall iw yn avon angay.
Ddail fy mhen i ywchydon.
Gwlo garno wna i mi ganu.
Yn yr avon ddwfon hon.
We'll sing it in Welsh first and then we'll do the second one in English and we need to stand up. Very good.
Here we go.
An adawroedd mawr ar tonnay.
Nid oes neb a ddail fy mhen.
Ond fy anwyl brior iesu.
Af i farw ar y pryn.
Cyfall iw yn avon angay.
Ddail fy mhen i ywchydon.
Gwlo garno wna i mi ganu.
Yn yr avon ddwfon hon.
Now in English.
Send our spirit high, we seek thee.
Praise the Lord, for our gain.
Send thy comfort low to each tree.
Guide me, have me, do my bidding.
Still for wretched I have wandered.
Far from seeing thy face.
Wretched I have wandered.
Lead only me into light.
Thank you.